<div align='center' ><font size ='6'> Electronic Devices for Smartphones Report </font> </div>

<div align='center' ><font size ='3'>Ziyu Tian</font> </div>


## <font size=5 face=Times New Roman> 0: Structure</font>
<font size=3 face=Times New Roman>


- Abstract 


- Introduction: why smartphone is an exemplar electronic system; scope of what you will cover (and not cover) and why.

    - Main IC processor: MOSFET, General principle and Main coefficient 

    - Camera: CMOS Image Sensor 

    - MEMS Sensors: application of p-n junction 

    - RF (5G) Communications: HBT in RF module and fabrication process

    - Display: LED / OLED / AMOLED and Touch Screen 

    - Memory: SRAM, DRAM, FLASH 


- Electronic device technology 


- Discussion 



- Summary and conclusion



## <font size=5 face=Times New Roman>I: Abstract</font>
<font size=3 face=Times New Roman>

This report presents a comprehensive analysis of electronic devices crucial to the functionality of smartphones, including MOSFET, CMOS, MEMS sensors, LED/OLED display, and RAM/FLASH memory. Each section explores the basic principles, equation derivations, and the influence of various semiconductor parameters and technologies. Based on the principle,the report highlights the interplay of these devices and their impact on smartphone performance. Notable contents include the application of MOSFET equivalent scaling method, demonstrating the evolving landscape of modern transistor. The report concludes with insights into the future outlook for electronic devices in the context of smartphone technology.
 
</font>

## <font size=5 face=Times New Roman>II: Introduction </font>
<font size=3 face=Times New Roman>

The rise of smartphones should be recalling to the end of 20th century, when the IBM Simon (shown in Fig.1) is invented by IBM and BellSouth in 1933. Powered by the inventing of MOSFET, IBM Simon with a touchscreen was referred as the first smartphone in the world. Based on the achievement of IBM Simon, the burgeoning smartphone industry developing rapidly. In 2008, Apple Company pushed out iPhone 3G, which is another milestone in the history of smartphone. As shown in Fig.2.1, iPhone 3G has already presented a complete exemplar electronic system, which is generally similar to the latest smartphone such as iPhone 15 shown in Fig.2.2. Since than, the smartphone become a typical system with multiple functional electronic devices, including MOSFETs inside the main processor and memory chip, CMOS image sensors in camera, p-n junction in MEMS sensors, Heterojunction Bipolar Transistorin (HBT) in radio frequency (RF) modules and LED in touchscreens. In the following report, I would focus on the the principles of these devices with related technology, demonstrate how these could be applied on modern smartphones.

</font>

## <font size=5 face=Times New Roman>III: Electronic Device Technology </font>
<font size=3 face=Times New Roman>


## <font size=4 face=Times New Roman>1: MOSFET: Key Component of CPU and Memory </font>
<font size=3 face=Times New Roman>

Inside the modern smartphone system, the Central Processor Units (CPU) play a essential role to conducting calculation tasks, and MOSFETs are the key components to form a CPU. To construct a CPU such as Apple A17 shown in Fig.3.1[1], billions of MOSFET should be deployed precisely. In the following part of this chapter, I would demonstrate the functionality principles of MOSFET from the MOS capacitors.   

The name 'MOS' refers to Metal Oxide Semiconductor, which means it is composed of a piece of metal, a layer of oxide insulator and another substrate of semiconductor, as shown in Fig.3.2. In the domain of smartphone electronic system design, the expectation of a MOS is to perform as a switch to control the carrier polarity at 'surface layer' in the substrate. This process is called 'inversion', which could generate a hole-doped layer inside the the electron-doped substrate (n-type) semiconductor, and vice versa for the p-type semiconductor.

For example of a p-type semiconductor, the principle of inversion layer generation could be descried as the following steps. Before adding external voltage across the metal,  